by moonlight we become more optically
sensitive the world resolves to subtle
grays and Silver's scents colors and
connections swore match of the darkness
but it's becoming harder to find true
darkness now cities stain their skies
orange we have come close to blinding
the Stars and to banishing night
we have the super flux of artificial
lighting now that interferes with all
sorts of natural rhythms our own
included but especially over the past
two centuries we've evolved lots of ways
of depleting darkness of shutting out
the night so you get the strange
artificial they like cast by our cities
many of us live our lives in this
permanent sodium light once the Sun Goes
Down the extent of lighting in our
cities and towns is now so significant
that for many of us seeing the Stars is
quite a rare experience
satellite images of the earth at night
show England as a sparkling rink of neon
with the southeast of the country
gleaming the brightest of all we've
nearly forgotten I think the power of
darkness
I've decided to spend the night sleeping
out on the seawall here on the edge of
the den G Peninsula it's the darkest
place in Essex night to me brings a
special wildness through any landscape
like snow fall mist or fog it confers a
great strangeness on a place and it's
happened here this evening it's been
absolutely magical to be out here the
Sun set nuclear behind the bread world
power station and then a gorgeous
Harvest Moon Rose orange over Jay wick
sands and flung its light down on the
mud desert that this tide has shown me
and I've been walking the foreshore and
the seawall in the darkness and
listening to the sounds their landscape
like this throws up
and he was ill piping a rooster catchers
coming in off the sea
a million sand hoppers snap crackling
and popping down on the shoreline on a
clear night like this with a moon
two days after fall on the wane and the
stars visible 360 degrees the sky feels
like a dome and you look up into it and
you feel almost as though your feet
might flash off from the ground and your
fall upwards it's a kind of inverse
vertigo it's a very wonderful and
strange feeling extraordinary and it
reminds me of why for as long as human
culture has been recording itself it's
directed dreams of reverence up at the
moon and at the Stars
you